## Publications
- Messenger, S. A., K. M. Pate, C. S. Quiroz, K. Longnecker, S. P. Sylva and C. P. Ward (2025). Initial evaluation of high-pressure ceramic nanofiltration for dissolved organic carbon isolation from surface waters across the land-to-ocean continuum. Limnology and Oceanography: Methods. 23(8): 562-577. DOI: 10.1002/lom3.10702
- Braakman, R., B. Satinsky, T. O’Keefe, K. Longnecker, S. Hogle, J. W. Becker, R. C. Li, K. Dooley, A. Arellano, M. C. Kido Soule, E. B. Kujawinski and S. W. Chisholm (2025). Global niche partitioning of purine and pyrimidine cross-feeding among ocean microbes. Science Advances. 11(1), eadp1949. DOI: 10.1126/sciadv.adp1949.
- Longnecker, K., Kido Soule, M. C., Kujawinski, E. B. (2024). A witches’ brew: Dissolved metabolites in seawater. Biogeochemistry of Marine Dissolved Organic Matter (Third Edition). D. A. Hansell and C. A. Carlson, Academic Press: 69-99.
- Longnecker, K., M. C. Kido Soule, G. J. Swarr, R. Parsons, S. Liu, W. M. Johnson, B. Widner, R. Curry, C. A. Carlson and E. B. Kujawinski (2024). Seasonal and daily patterns in known dissolved metabolites in the northwestern Sargasso Sea. Limnology and Oceanography. 69(3): 449-466. DOI: 10.1002/lno.12497
- Parsons, R. J., S. Liu, K. Longnecker, K. Yongblah, C. Johnson, L. Bolaños, K. Opalk, M. C. Kido Soule, R. Garley, C. A. Carlson, B. Temperton and N. R. Bates (2023). Suboxic DOM is bioavailable to Surface Prokaryotes in a Simulated Overturn of an Oxygen Minimum Zone, Devil’s Hole, Bermuda. Frontiers in Microbiology. 14:1287477. DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2023.1287477
- Kujawinski, E. B., R. Braakman, K. Longnecker, J. W. Becker, S. W. Chisholm, K. Dooley, M. C. Kido Soule, G. J. Swarr and K. Halloran (2023). Metabolite diversity among representatives of divergent Prochlorococcus ecotypes. mSystems. DOI: 10.1128/msystems.01261-22
- Becker, C. C., L. Weber, B. Zgliczynski, C. Sullivan, S. Sandin, E. Muller, A. S. Clark, M. C. Kido Soule, K. Longnecker, E. B. Kujawinski and A. Apprill (2023). Microorganisms and dissolved metabolites distinguish Florida’s coral reef habitats. PNAS Nexus 2(9): pgad287. DOI: 10.1093/pnasnexus/pgad287 
- Freeman, D. H., S. F. Niles, R. P. Rodgers, D. P. French-McCay, K. Longnecker, C. M. Reddy and C. P. Ward (2023). Hot and cold: Photochemical weathering mediates oil properties and fate differently depending on seawater temperature. Environmental Science & Technology. DOI: 10.1021/acs.est.3c02962.
- Capovilla, G., R. Braakman, G. Fournier, T. Hackl, J. Schwartzman, X. Lu, A. Yelton, K. Longnecker, M. Kido Soule, E. Thomas, G. Swarr, A. Mongera, J. Payette, J. Waldbauer, E. B. Kujawinski, O. X. Cordero and S. W. Chisholm (2023). Chitin utilization by marine picocyanobacteria and the evolution of a planktonic lifestyle. Proc Natl Acad Sci U.S.A. 120(20): e2213271120
- Catipovic, L., K. Longnecker, S.R. Okkonen, D. Koestner, and S.R. Laney (2023) Optical insight into riverine influences on dissolved and particulate organic carbon in a coastal Arctic lagoon system. Journal of Geophysical Research – Oceans. 128(4): e2022JC019453. 
- Johnson, W. M., M. C. Kido Soule, K. Longnecker, M. P. Bhatia, S. J. Hallam, M. W. Lomas and E. B. Kujawinski (2023). Particulate and dissolved metabolite distributions along a latitudinal transect of the western Atlantic Ocean. Limnology and Oceanography 68(2): 377-393
- Weber, L., M. Kido Soule, K. Longnecker, C. C. Becker, N. Huntley, E. B. Kujawinski and A. Apprill (2022). Benthic exometabolites and their ecological significance on threatened Caribbean coral reefs. ISME Communications 2(2): 101
- Cavaco, M. A., M. P. Bhatia, A. K. Hawley, M. Torres-Beltrán, W. M. Johnson, K. Longnecker, K. Konwar, E. B. Kujawinski and S. J. Hallam (2022). Pathway-centric analysis of microbial metabolic potential and expression along nutrient and energy gradients in the western Atlantic Ocean. Frontiers in Marine Science DOI:10.3389/fmars.2022.867310
- Liu, S., K. Longnecker, E. B. Kujawinski, K. Vergin, L. M. Bolaños, S. J. Giovannoni, R. Parsons, K. Opalk, E. Halewood, D. A. Hansell, R. Johnson, R. Curry and C. A. Carlson (2022). Linkages among dissolved organic matter export, dissolved metabolites, and associated microbial community structure response in the northwestern Sargasso Sea on a seasonal scale. Frontiers in Microbiology. DOI:10.3389/fmicb.2022.833252
- Weber, L., M. Armenteros, M. Kido Soule, K. Longnecker, E.B. Kujawinski, A. Apprill (2020). Extracellular reef metabolites across the protected Jardines de la Reina, Cuba reef-system. Frontiers in Marine Science. 7:1063
- Longnecker, K. and E.B. Kujawinski (2020) Intracellular metabolites in marine microorganisms during an experiment evaluating microbial mortality. Metabolites 10(3):105 
- Longnecker, K., L. Oswald, M.C. Kido Soule, G.A. Cutter, E.B. Kujawinski (2020) Organic sulfur: a spatially variable and understudied component of marine organic matter. Limnology & Oceanography Letters 5:305-312
- Liu, S., R. Parsons, K. Opalk, N. Baetge, S. Giovannoni, L. Bolanos, E.B. Kujawinski, K. Longnecker, Y. Lu, E. Halewood, C.A. Carlson (2020) Different carboxyl-rich alicyclic molecules (CRAM) proxy compounds select distinct bacterioplankton for oxidation of DOM in the mesopelagic Sargasso Sea. Limnology and Oceanography 65:1532-1553
- Saw, J. H. W., T. Nunoura, M. Hirai, Y. Takaki, R. Parsons, M. Michelsen, K. Longnecker, E. B. Kujawinski, R. Stepanauskas, Z. Landry, C. A. Carlson and S. J. Giovannoni (2020). Pangenomics analysis reveals diversification of enzyme families and niche specification in globally abundant SAR202 bacteria. mBio 11: e02975-02919
- Johnson, W.M., K. Longnecker, M.C. Kido Soule, W.A. Arnold, M.P. Bhatia, S.J. Hallam, B.A.S. Van Mooy, E.B. Kujawinski (2020). Metabolite composition of sinking particles differs from surface suspended particles across a latitudinal transect in the South Atlantic. Limnology and Oceanography 65:111-127
- Glazer, L., M.C. Kido Soule, K. Longnecker, E.B. Kujawinski, N. Aluru (2018). Hepatic metabolite profiling of polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB)-resistant and sensitive populations of Atlantic killifish (Fundulus heteroclitus). Aquatic Toxicology 205: 114-122.
- Longnecker, K., Sievert, S.M., Sylva, S.P., Seewald, J.S., and Kujawinski, E.B. (2018). Dissolved organic carbon compounds in deep-sea hydrothermal vent fluids from the East Pacific Rise at 9º50’N. Organic Geochemistry 125: 41-49.
- Brooker, M.R., K. Longnecker, E.B. Kujawinski, M.H. Evert, P.J. Mouser (2018). Discrete organic phosphorus signatures are evident in pollutant sources within a Lake Erie tributary. Environmental Science & Technology 52:6771-6779.
- Collins, J. R., H. F. Fredricks, J. S. Bowman, C. P. Ward, C. Moreno, K. Longnecker, A. Marchetti, C. M. Hansel, H. W. Ducklow and B. A. S. Van Mooy (2018). The molecular products and biogeochemical significance of lipid photooxidation in West Antarctic surface waters. Geochimica et Cosmochimica Acta 232: 244-264. 
- Götz, F., K. Longnecker, M. C. K. Soule, K. W. Becker, J. McNichol, E. B. Kujawinski and S. M. Sievert (2018). Targeted metabolomics reveals proline as a major osmolyte in the chemolithoautotroph Sulfurimonas denitrificans. Microbiology Open. 7:e586
- Tolić, N., Y. Liu, A. Liyu, Y. Shen, M. M. Tfaily, E. B. Kujawinski, K. Longnecker, L.-J. Kuo, E. W. Robinson, L. Paša-Tolić and N. J. Hess (2017). Formularity: Software for automated formula assignment of natural and other organic matter from ultrahigh-resolution mass spectra. Analytical Chemistry. 89: 12659-12665.
- Kujawinski, E.B., K. Longnecker, H. Alexander, S.T. Dyhrman, C.L. Fiore, S.T. Haley, and W.M. Johnson (2017). Phosphorus availability regulates intracellular nucleotides in marine eukaryotic phytoplankton. Limnology and Oceanography Letters 2: 119-129.
- Longnecker, K. and E. B. Kujawinski (2017). Mining mass spectrometry data: Using new computational tools to find novel organic compounds in complex environmental mixtures. Organic Geochemistry 110: 92-99.
- Longnecker, K. and E. B. Kujawinski (2016). Using network analysis to discern compositional patterns in ultrahigh resolution mass spectrometry data of dissolved organic matter. Rapid Communications in Mass Spectrometry 30: 2388-2394.
- Maiti, K., S. Bosu, E. D’Sa, P.L. Adhikari, M. Sutor, and K. Longnecker (2016). Export fluxes in Northern Gulf of Mexico – comparative evaluation of direct, indirect and satellite-based estimates. Marine Chemistry 184:60-77.
- Kujawinski, E. B., K. Longnecker, K. L. Barott, R. J. M. Weber and M. C. Kido Soule (2016). Microbial community structure affects marine dissolved organic matter composition. Frontiers in Marine Science 3:45
- Moran, M. A., E. B. Kujawinski, A. Stubbins, R. Fatland, L. I. Aluwihare, A. Buchan, B. C. Crump, P. C. Dorrestein, S. T. Dyhrman, N. Hess, B. Howe, K. Longnecker, P. M. Medeiros, J. Niggemann, I. Obernosterer, D. J. Repeta and J. Waldbauer (2016). Deciphering ocean carbon in a changing world. Proceedings of the National Academy of  Sciences, USA 113: 3143-3151. 
- Longnecker, K., J. Futrelle, E. Coburn, M. C. Kido Soule and E. B. Kujawinski (2015). Environmental metabolomics: databases and tools for data analysis. Marine Chemistry 177, Part 2: 366-373.
- Kido Soule, M. C., K. Longnecker, W.M. Johnson, and E. B. Kujawinski (2015). Environmental metabolomics: analytical strategies. Marine Chemistry 177, Part 2: 374-387.
- Pedler Sherwood, B., E. A. Shaffer, K. Reyes, K. Longnecker, L. I. Aluwihare and F. Azam (2015). Metabolic characterization of a model bacterial strain capable of significant chemical alteration of marine dissolved organic matter. Marine Chemistry 177, Part 2: 357-365.
- Fiore, C. L., K. Longnecker, M. C. Kido Soule and E. B. Kujawinski (2015). Release of ecologically relevant metabolites by the cyanobacterium, Synechococcus elongatus CCMP 1631. Environmental Microbiology 17:3949-3963.
- Longnecker, K. (2015). Dissolved organic matter in newly formed sea ice and surface seawater. Geochimica et Cosmochimica Acta 171: 39-49.
- Longnecker, K., Kido Soule, M. C., Kujawinski, E. B. (2015). Dissolved organic matter produced by Thalasiossira pseudonana. Marine Chemistry 168: 114-123.
- Arnold, W.A., K. Longnecker, K.D. Kroeger, E.B. Kujawinski (2014). Molecular signature of organic nitrogen in septic-impacted groundwater. Environmental Science: Processes & Impacts 16: 2400-2407.
- Longnecker, K. and E.B. Kujawinski (2013). Using stable isotope probing to characterize differences between free-living and sediment-associated microorganisms in the subsurface. Geomicrobiology Journal 30: 362-370.
- Minor, E. C., C. J. Steinbring, K. Longnecker, E. B. Kujawinski (2012). Characterization of dissolved organic matter in Lake Superior and its watershed using ultrahigh resolution mass spectrometry. Organic Geochemistry 43: 1-11.
- Edwards, B.R., C.M. Reddy, R. Camilli, C.A. Carmichael, K. Longnecker, B.A.S. Van Mooy (2011). Rapid microbial respiration of oil from the Deepwater Horizon spill in offshore surface waters of the Gulf of Mexico. Environmental Research Letters 6:035301.
- Longnecker, K. and E.B. Kujawinski (2011). Composition of dissolved organic matter in groundwater. Geochimica et Cosmochimica Acta 75: 2752-2761.
- Kujawinski, E.B., M.C. Kido Soule, D.L. Valentine, A.K. Boysen, K. Longnecker, M.C. Redmond (2011). Fate of dispersants associated with the Deepwater Horizon oil spill. Environmental Science & Technology 45: 1298-1306. 
- del Giorgio P.A., R. Condon, T. Bouvier, K. Longnecker, C. Bouvier, E.B. Sherr, J.M. Gasol (2011). Coherent patterns in bacterial growth, growth efficiency, and leucine metabolism along a northeastern Pacific inshore-offshore transect. Limnology and Oceanography 56: 1-16. 
- Longnecker, K., M.W. Lomas, and B.A.S. Van Mooy (2010). Abundance and diversity of heterotrophic bacterial cells assimilating phosphate in the subtropical North Atlantic Ocean. Environmental Microbiology 12: 2773-2782.
- Kido Soule, M.C., K. Longnecker, S.J. Giovannoni, and E.B. Kujawinski (2010). Impact of instrument and experiment parameters on reproducibility and repeatability of peaks within ultrahigh resolution ESI FT-ICR mass spectra of natural organic matter. Organic Geochemistry 41: 725-733.
- Bhatia, M.P., S.B. Das, K. Longnecker, M.A. Charette, and E.B. Kujawinski (2010).  Molecular characterization of dissolved organic matter associated with the Greenland ice sheet. Geochimica et Cosmochimica Acta. 74: 3768-3784.
- Longnecker, K., M.J. Wilson, E.B. Sherr, and B.F. Sherr (2010). Effect of top-down control on cell-specific activity and diversity of active marine bacterioplankton. Aquatic Microbial Ecology. 58:153-165.
- Longnecker, K., A. Da Costa, M. Bhatia, and E.B. Kujawinski (2009). Effect of carbon addition and predation on acetate-assimilating bacterial cells in groundwater. FEMS Microbiology Ecology. 70: 456-470.
- Kujawinski, E.B., K. Longnecker, N.V. Blough, R. Del Vecchio, L. Finlay, J.B. Kitner, and S.J. Giovannoni (2009). Identification of possible source markers in marine dissolved organic matter using ultrahigh resolution mass spectrometry. Geochimica et Cosmochimica Acta. 73: 4384-4399.
- Longnecker, K., B.F. Sherr, and E.B. Sherr (2006). Variation in cell-specific rates of leucine and thymidine incorporation by high and low nucleic acid content marine bacteria off the Oregon coast. Aquatic Microbial Ecology. 43: 113-125.
- Longnecker, K., D.S. Homen, E.B. Sherr and B.F. Sherr (2006). Similar community structure of biosynthetically active prokaryotes across a range of ecosystem trophic states. Aquatic Microbial Ecology. 42: 265-276.
- Morris, R.M., K. Longnecker and S.J. Giovannoni (2006). Pirellula and OM43 are among the dominant lineages identified in an Oregon coast diatom bloom. Environmental Microbiology. 8: 1361-1370.
- Sherr, E.B., B. F. Sherr, and K. Longnecker (2006). Distribution of bacterial abundance and cell-specific nucleic acid content in the Northeast Pacific Ocean. Deep-Sea Research I. 53: 713-725.
- Longnecker, K., B. F. Sherr and E. B. Sherr (2005). Activity and phylogenetic diversity of bacterial cells with high and low nucleic acid content and electron transport system activity in an upwelling ecosystem. Applied and Environmental Microbiology. 71: 7737-7749.
- Longnecker, K. and A.-L. Reysenbach (2001). Expansion of the geographic distribution of a novel lineage of $\varepsilon$-Proteobacteria to a hydrothermal vent site on the Southern East Pacific Rise. FEMS Microbiology Ecology. 35: 287-293.
- Reysenbach, A.-L., K. Longnecker and J. Kirshtein (2000). Novel bacterial and archaeal lineages from an in situ growth chamber deployed at a Mid-Atlantic Ridge hydrothermal vent. Applied and Environmental Microbiology. 66: 3798-3797.
- Van Winkle, D.H., K. Longnecker and N.W. Blackstone (2000). The effects of hermit crabs on hydractiniid hydroids. Marine Ecology. 21: 55-67.
